so I decided that trying to move the
actual beehive was a bad idea
but I came up with an alternate plan to
build a nuke box to split my colony and
make a mini colony and take that mini
colony with me right so we went to the
hardware store yeah dad got the board
and we're gonna use this cut it up and
make a nuke box for less than nine
dollars the board was like 850 or
something but don't forget protective
eyewear okay
it's been like 15 minutes now I'm all
done cutting my would not spend like
hours and hours but Joel Salatin said
that when you're getting started with
like farming and homesteading and
whatever if you want to like make it
economically viable one thing to do is
choose techniques that are labor
expensive as opposed to cash extensions
so lucky I had the skill sock if my dad
left it here one time but if I didn't I
could have cut him by hand and I had to
do some other things like yeah there's a
farm oh boy if I had some different
tools that might have done it
differently but okay so hours of effort
later got us this stack of boards right
here and
bottom two sides the top two ends and
then Scrappy's will be the into the top
and these will be the hand holds on the
side and the other thing I shared this
is the other thing I did that was
labor-intensive as opposed to machinery
intensive okay chiseled these out by
hand that's where the frames are gonna
rest in there this is not the right size
famous as a shallow frame suit it would
be longer but so that's the shelf for
that and I just eyeballed that 5/8 of an
inch down and about halfway through good
now finish up the other one all right
here is our finished
nucleus hive or nuke box just have a
plain top on it right now I was off it
inside are the frames they sit on that
little ledge that I made and these are
the shallow ones that it'll the ones
that go in will be deeper and I just put
in a extra little piece of wood right
there to close up that gap and having
some gaps in there isn't a bad thing the
bees actually go in and they fill up any
gaps or rough spots with the propolis
you can see on this this is just raw
wood but you see how it's got that
yellow tint to it that's because the
bezel this is a piece off of a broken
hive top bar but you can see how it
looks yellow because the bees have
coated it in propolis and that's
actually this adds a good thing helps
keep disease out of the hive
and I went ahead and just let the whole
bottom open and the reason I did that
actually let me take the jump off reason
I did that is because the nucleus hive
is gonna be such small numbers that
they're gonna need help the whole time
so so this is a hi Peter and so then
they still just only have a three three
inches of clearance to come on out but
then here's the high for a little fender
seafood and they climb in there you have
the jar upside down right here so we'll
have that on them the whole time that
they're in there until we get them moved
over to their permanent hive
today haha